
                                 JavaCC 4.0

This is version 4.0 of JavaCC and it's the one we currently use to build Yoix.
It's an old binary distribution from Sun Microsystems that we started using many
years ago. Dates in the javacc.jar file suggest that the class files were built
in 2006, which probably is about when we started using this version.

JavaCC is still under development and old releases, even this one, can be found
be downloaded from

    https://github.com/javacc/javacc/releases

but they all seem to be source code releases. JavaCC is a great parser generator,
but we're happy users and not JavaCC developers, so all we really need are a few
simple shell scripts and the javacc.jar file that those scripts reference. Even
though building everything from the JavaCC source is easy, for our purposes it's
unnecessary work, so we decided to include the version of JavaCC that we're sure
will let you build the Yoix interpreter. If you're curious about how this version
is selected take a look at the JAVACC and JJTREE definitions in the file

    ../make/common.mk

and you'll see that they use the gmake realpath function and the ROOT variable,
which is set in makefiles that include common.mk, to point at the shell scripts
in the bin directory.

Finally, we should briefly address the compilation issues you probably would face
if you decided to try a different version of JavaCC. The Yoix source hasn't been
touched since 2011, so when JavaCC generates Java files for the parsers that are
part of the Yoix interpreter, much of what's included in those generated files is
old Java code that we wrote many years ago. Combine that old Yoix Java code with
whatever else is generated by newer versions of JavaCC and you end up with messy
parser Java files that usually can't be compiled. The culprit is the Yoix Java
code and not JavaCC, but because this may be the only version of JavaCC that you
can use to build the Yoix interpreter we decided to include it in this release.

