These are Yoix scripts and HTML files that are installed in the directory
that your web server uses to distribute documents (usually HTML files, but
in our case most are Yoix scripts). They're important files that include
one HTML file, ten Yoix scripts that make up the low level infrastructure
when they're downloaded and executed by the client, a small collection of
Yoix scripts that are used build screens that might be needed during the
login process (i.e., before a client gets a valid sessionid), and several
other screens (e.g., your application's main screen) that are "preloaded"
while the user is logging in.

Clients usually point an appropriate version of the Yoix interpreter at
the installed version of ywait._YX when they want to start your application.
It happens automatically when clients use the programs that the "installer"
loads on their systems, but there's really no magic involved. Point your
browser at the installed version of ywait._YX and you get to read the file.
Point the Yoix interpreter at the same file and you get to run it.

The ten files

	ywait._YX
	ywait_common.yx
	ywait_custom.yx
	ywait_icons.yx
	ywait_insets.yx
	ywait_plugins.yx
	ywait_preferences.yx
	ywait_screens._YX
	ywait_server._YX
	ywait_threads.yx

make up the low level infrastructure that runs on the client. Take a look
at ywait._YX and you will see a series of include statements that load the
rest of these files from your server.

Screen files that might be used before a user successfully logs in

	ywait_broadcast.yx
	ywait_confirm.yx
	ywait_login.yx
	ywait_login_password.yx
	ywait_notify.yx
	ywait_reconnect.yx
	ywait_reconnect_password.yx
	ywait_welcome.yx

are included in here because clients won't necessarily have a sessionid
that would let them go through normal channels to get the screen. You'll
also find several screens, like

	ywait_main.yx
	ywait_welcome.yx

that aren't used during login, but they're "preloaded" while the user is
logging in. It's not a required step, so your application's main screen
could easily be moved into the ../screens directory, but preloading can
reduce the startup time a bit, particularly if you have a complicated
main screen.

